versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/03-Admin/admin-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Administer Integrations
description: Administer Integrations
sidebar_label: Integrations
slug: integrations
---

# Admin Integrations

The Integrations tab allows you to connect Featureflow with other tools and services to enhance your workflow.

![Admin Integrations](/img/2-0/admin-integrations.png)

## Available Integrations

Featureflow currently supports the following integrations:

- **Slack** — Connect your Slack workspace to receive notifications about feature flag changes and updates.
- **Jira** — Connect your Jira instance to sync issues and updates, linking feature flags directly to your project management workflow.

To add an integration, click the **Add** button next to the desired service. You will be redirected to the respective application (Slack or Atlassian Marketplace) to complete the authorization and setup process.

![Jira Marketplace](/img/2-0/admin-integrations-jira.png)

## Installed Integrations

Once an integration is installed, it will appear in the **Installed Integrations** section. Here you can see:
- The integration name and icon
- Who installed the integration
- The connected instance URL
- Options to manage or remove the integration

Commit message:

Refactor Java and Node.js quickstart documentation for clarity and consistency. Update feature evaluation steps, enhance API key instructions, and improve user targeting sections. Add new images for better visual guidance.

versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/03-Admin/admin-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Administer Integrations
description: Administer Integrations
sidebar_label: Integrations
slug: integrations
---

# Admin Integrations

The Integrations tab allows you to connect Featureflow with other tools and services to enhance your workflow.

![Admin Integrations](/img/2-0/admin-integrations.png)

## Available Integrations

Featureflow currently supports the following integrations:

- **[Slack](/docs/slack)** — Connect your Slack workspace to receive notifications about feature flag changes and updates.
- **[Jira](/docs/jira)** — Connect your Jira instance to sync issues and updates, linking feature flags directly to your project management workflow.

You can also integrate Featureflow with **[Heap Analytics](/docs/heap)** to track feature flag evaluations alongside your user analytics.

To add an integration, click the **Add** button next to the desired service. You will be redirected to the respective application (Slack or Atlassian Marketplace) to complete the authorization and setup process.

![Jira Marketplace](/img/2-0/admin-integrations-jira.png)

## Installed Integrations

Once an integration is installed, it will appear in the **Installed Integrations** section. Here you can see:
- The integration name and icon
- Who installed the integration
- The connected instance URL
- Options to manage or remove the integration
