versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/01-Quickstart/4-javascript-5minute.md, before:

---
title: Javascript - 5 Minute test
sidebar_label: Javascript - 5 Minute test
slug: /javascript-5minute
---

This is the 5 minute test for the Javascript (client) SDK.

This will run you through trialling out the basics.

Once you have tried this head to the quick start to implement it in your own project.

If you haven't signed up yet - [go and get an account now here](https://app.featureflow.io/)

### 1. Go to the JsBin Example

   Open the JSBin example - [Featureflow JSBin five minute example](http://codepen.io/henryyoung/pen/xqEmMR)

### 2. Edit the ES6/Babel file

   In the ES6/Babel tab, set FF_KEY to your 'JS Client Environment Api Key' - this can be found under the 'Api Keys' link at the top of the features list in featureflow.

```javascript
const FF_KEY = '<environment key goes here>';
```
You can find the key on the settings panel of your environment page - it begins with 'js-env-'

![SDK Key](/img/javascript-5minute-1.png)

### 3. Test

   1. Click Run with JS in the top right corner
   2. Open your featureflow account in a separate tab
   3. Toggle the control in the environment features list
   4. Note the output, refresh the page and note the output
   
__Congratulations!__ It's as simple as that. Now go forth and let this be the beginning of your continuous deployment dream! 

Check the [user guide](/) for far more usages.

## See More

We have a complete example in codepen [here](https://codepen.io/featureflow/pen/RzxzzJ) add your JS SDK Key and have a play.

Commit message:

Refactor Java and Node.js quickstart documentation for clarity and consistency. Update feature evaluation steps, enhance API key instructions, and improve user targeting sections. Add new images for better visual guidance.

versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/01-Quickstart/4-javascript-5minute.md, after:

---
title: JavaScript - 5 Minute Test
sidebar_label: JavaScript - 5 Minute Test
slug: /javascript-5minute
---

# JavaScript - 5 Minute Test

Try Featureflow in your browser in under 5 minutes using CodePen — no installation required.

## Prerequisites

If you haven't already, [create a free Featureflow account](https://app.featureflow.io/).

## 1. Open the CodePen Example

Open the [Featureflow CodePen example](https://codepen.io/featureflow/pen/RzxzzJ).

## 2. Get Your API Key

Navigate to your project page and find the **Environments** section. Click the key icon next to your environment to view the API keys:

![Project Environments](/img/2-0/project-environments.png)

Copy the **Client SDK API Key** (starts with `sdk-js-env-`):

![API Keys Modal](/img/2-0/project-environments-api-key.png)

In the CodePen, update the `FF_KEY` variable with your key:

```javascript
const FF_KEY = 'sdk-js-env-YOUR_API_KEY';
```

## 3. Test It

1. Click **Run** in CodePen
2. Open your Featureflow dashboard in another tab
3. Toggle the `example-feature` on in your environment
4. Refresh the CodePen — the output will change!

**Congratulations!** You've seen Featureflow in action.

## Next Steps

- [Quick Start - Frontend](/docs/quick-start-frontend) — integrate into your own project
- [Quick Start - Server](/docs/quick-start-server) — add server-side feature flags
- [Targeting features](/docs/targeting-features) — control who sees what
