versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/02-User-Guide/2-enable-features.mdx, before:

---
title: Enable and Disable Features
sidebar_label: Enable and Disable Features
slug: /enable-disable-features
---

# Enable and Disable Features

Each feature can be independently enabled or disabled per environment, allowing you to control rollouts across development, staging, and production.

## Toggling a Feature

1. Navigate to your project and select the feature you want to control
2. Click the **On/Off toggle** next to the environment you wish to change
3. For production environments, you'll see a confirmation dialog to prevent accidental changes

![Toggle Feature](/img/2-0/feature-toggle-feature.png)

When a feature is:
- **On** — Targeting rules are evaluated and users receive their matched variant
- **Off** — All users receive the "off" variant, regardless of targeting rules

## Next Steps

- [Manage feature variants](/manage-feature-variants) to create more than just on/off states
- [Set up gradual rollouts](/gradual-rollouts) to release features incrementally
- [Target features](/targeting-features) to specific users or segments

Commit message:

Clarify user guide on feature states by changing "off" variant description to "disabled" variant for consistency in version 2.0.0 documentation.

versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/02-User-Guide/2-enable-features.mdx, after:

---
title: Enable and Disable Features
sidebar_label: Enable and Disable Features
slug: /enable-disable-features
---

# Enable and Disable Features

Each feature can be independently enabled or disabled per environment, allowing you to control rollouts across development, staging, and production.

## Toggling a Feature

1. Navigate to your project and select the feature you want to control
2. Click the **On/Off toggle** next to the environment you wish to change
3. For production environments, you'll see a confirmation dialog to prevent accidental changes

![Toggle Feature](/img/2-0/feature-toggle-feature.png)

When a feature is:
- **On** — Targeting rules are evaluated and users receive their matched variant
- **Off** — All users receive the "disabled" variant (by default, this is "off"), regardless of targeting rules

## Next Steps

- [Manage feature variants](/manage-feature-variants) to create more than just on/off states
- [Set up gradual rollouts](/gradual-rollouts) to release features incrementally
- [Target features](/targeting-features) to specific users or segments
