versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/02-User-Guide/3-manage-feature-variants.mdx, before:

---
title: Managing Feature Variants
sidebar_label: Managing Feature Variants
slug: /managing-feature-variants
---

# Managing Feature Variants

Variants are a simple but powerful concept.

A feature can have any number of variants. The most basic feature has two variants - 'off' and 'on'.

As you create new versions of your feature or wish to test variations against each other, you will create new variants.

They may be improvements, alternatives for a/b testing or functions such as maintenance mode.

1. Navigate to the features list in any project
2. Click the feature name to open the feature detail view
3. Select the 'Settings' tab
4. Click 'Change Variants' button to show the variants if they are hidden
4. Click 'Add Variant' to add a new variant

* key: is the variant-unique key that your application will use to identify the variant
* name: is a friendly name
* description: is and additional description field

4. Click 'Save Feature Settings' to save your changes.

![Manage feature variants](/img/2-0/features-edit-add-variant.png)

Examples may be:
* "v2" - To identify a particular version of a feature
* "simple"/"advanced" - To identify different types of a feature
* "normal"/"maintenance" - to identify different modes of operation for a feature

Now that you have defined your variants you can target and set them in the 'update rules' dialog for the feature.

:::caution
#### Modifying variants changes the variant in all environments

You should manage your variants carefully as they are applied across all environments. If a variant is removed any environment using that variant will fall back to the default variant. If the default variant is using a variant that is removed then if will fall back to the failover variant.
Featureflow maintains sensible safeguards against modifying variants that are in use.
:::
You can alternatively define your variants directly in your code. When you register a feature with a list of variants defined featureflow will make them available in the UI.


#### What's Next?
Want to tread lightly? You can roll out your features and variants gradually to a percentage of users using Gradual rollouts:

Commit message:

Refactor Java and Node.js quickstart documentation for clarity and consistency. Update feature evaluation steps, enhance API key instructions, and improve user targeting sections. Add new images for better visual guidance.

versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/02-User-Guide/3-manage-feature-variants.mdx, after:

---
title: Managing Feature Variants
sidebar_label: Managing Feature Variants
slug: /manage-feature-variants
---

# Managing Feature Variants

Variants allow a feature to return different values beyond simple on/off states. Use variants for:
- **Version testing** — e.g., `v1`, `v2`, `v3`
- **A/B testing** — e.g., `control`, `variant-a`, `variant-b`
- **Feature modes** — e.g., `normal`, `maintenance`, `advanced`

## Adding Variants

1. Navigate to your project and select a feature
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. Click **Change Variants** to expand the variants section
4. Click **Add Variant** to create a new variant
5. Enter the variant details:
   - **Key** — unique identifier used in your code (e.g., `variant-b`)
   - **Name** — human-readable display name
   - **Description** — optional details about this variant
6. Click **Save Feature Settings**

![Manage feature variants](/img/2-0/features-edit-add-variant.png)

Once you've defined your variants, you can assign them to users through [targeting rules](/docs/targeting-features) or [gradual rollouts](/docs/gradual-rollouts).

:::caution
**Variants are shared across all environments**

Modifying or removing a variant affects all environments. If a variant in use is removed, the environment will fall back to the default variant. Featureflow provides safeguards to warn you before modifying variants that are currently in use.
:::

## Defining Variants in Code

You can also define variants directly in your application code. When you register a feature with predefined variants, Featureflow will automatically make them available in the dashboard.

## Next Steps

- [Gradual rollouts](/docs/gradual-rollouts) — release variants to a percentage of users
- [Targeting features](/docs/targeting-features) — assign variants to specific users or segments
